---
layout: note
title: Compound Interest
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Compound Interest

Compound interest is the principle by which the interest you earn also earns interest, and the interest on that interest earns interest, ad infinitum. The larger your balance gets, the bigger those interest numbers become, thanks to exponential growth. With Compound Interest, you work out the interest for the first period, add it to the total, and then calculate the interest for the next period, and so on and on and on.

Compounding is a force that can catapult you to a life of total financial freedom. If you stay in the market long enough (see: [[Investment Goals]]) compounding works its magic, and you end up with a healthy return. Even if your timing was hopelessly unlucky. It isn’t about getting a perfect score. Even small improvements in our behavior can deliver enormous rewards. If your returns improve by, say, 2 or 3 percentage points a year, the cumulative impact over decades is astounding, thanks to the power of compounding.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Investment Goals]]
	* If you can’t afford to set aside years of income simply start with an achievable goal and keep raising the bar as you progress. For example, you might start with a goal of saving three or six months of income, and then work your way, over many years, toward the ultimate goal of setting aside seven years of income. Never underestimate the power of disciplined saving combined with long-term [[Compound Interest]].
* [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]
	* Holding cash is a poor [[Asset Allocation]] strategy. Does not provide you with [[Diversified Returns]] and does not [[Compound Interest]] over time.

