---
layout: note
title: Holding Cash is a Bad Investment
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Holding Cash is a Bad Investment

If you want to be certain that you’ll never lose money in the [[Stock Markets]], you can keep your savings in cash—but then you’ll never stand a chance of achieving financial freedom. As [[Warren Buffet Knowledge]] says, “We pay a high price for certainty". Simply saving money doesn’t generate future wealth.

Holding cash is a poor [[Asset Allocation]] strategy. Does not provide you with [[Diversified Returns]] and does not [[Compound Interest]] over time.

**Cash doesn’t earn a return, so it will underperform stocks over time** The challenge is that you earn nothing these days if you keep your money in cash. Even worse the value of cash will go down over time. As the market inflates, [[Inflation]].

At least bonds provide some income. As I see it, bonds are now the cleanest dirty clothing in the laundry pile.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Asset Allocation]]
	* Different asset classes don’t usually move in tandem and **success is largely dependent on smart asset allocation.** By knowing precisely how much of your money to put in different asset classes such as [[Stock Markets]], [[Bonds]], real estate, gold, and cash (see also; [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]), you can protect yourself against disaster by building a portfolio that’s broadly diversified globally and also among different types of assets.
* [[Inflation]]
	* [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]? Natural inflation erodes the value of cash holdings. [[Diversified Returns]] can help to decrease the risk of that happening.

