---
layout: note
title: JavaScript Functions
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# JavaScript Functions

- [[JavaScript Functions]]
  - [[Anonymous Functions]]
  - [[Function Parameters]]
  - [[Function Scope and Conflicts]]
  - [[Function Return Values]]
  - [[Default Values in Functions]]
- [[Function Expressions]]
  - [[Callback Functions]]

Functions are the main building blocks of scripts. A function declaration looks like this:

```javascript
function name(parameters, delimited, by, comma) {
  /* code */
}
```

- **Values passed to a function as parameters are copied to its local variables.**
- A function may access outer variables. But it works only from inside out. The code outside of the function doesn’t see its local variables.
- **A function can return a value. If it doesn’t, then its result is undefined.** see [[Default Values in Functions]]
- **To make the code clean and easy to understand, it’s recommended to use mainly local variables and parameters in the function, not outer variables.**

It is always easier to understand a function which gets parameters, works with them and returns a result than a function which gets no parameters, but modifies outer variables as a side-effect.

## Function Naming:

[[Naming a Function]]

- A name should clearly describe what the function does. When we see a function call in the code, a good name instantly gives us an understanding what it does and returns.
- A function is an action, so function names are usually verbal.
- There exist many well-known function prefixes like create…, show…, get…, check… and so on. Use them to hint what a function does.

---
## Backlinks
* [[JavaScript Functions]]
	* [[JavaScript Functions]]

