---
layout: note
title: Bonds
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Bonds

A bond is a loan to a government, a company, or some other entity. When you lend money to the federal government, it’s called a Treasury bond. When you lend money to a city, state, or county, it’s a municipal bond. When you lend money to a company such as Microsoft, it’s a corporate bond. And when you lend money to a less dependable company, it’s called a high-yield bond (or a junk bond). As an asset class, bonds deliver positive calendar-year returns approximately 85% of the time.

Corporate bonds are typically seen as riskier (see: [[Asymmetric Risk Reward]]) than government bonds, they usually have higher interest rates. Bonds have different features than stocks and their prices tend to be less correlated, making bonds a good diversifier for investment portfolios.

In general, bonds are considered to be more conservative investments than stocks and also typically pay regular interest payments to investors. As a result, bond prices vary inversely with interest rates, falling when rates go up and vice-versa. Because bonds pay a steady interest stream, called the coupon, owners of bonds have to pay regular income taxes on the funds received. For this reason, bonds are best kept in a tax sheltered account, like an IRA, to gain tax advantages not present in a standard brokerage account.

They are generally much safer than stocks because the borrower is legally required to repay you. If you hold a bond to maturity, you’ll receive all of your original loan back, plus the interest payments—unless the bond issuer goes bankrupt.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Asset Allocation]]
	* Different asset classes don’t usually move in tandem and **success is largely dependent on smart asset allocation.** By knowing precisely how much of your money to put in different asset classes such as [[Stock Markets]], [[Bonds]], real estate, gold, and cash (see also; [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]), you can protect yourself against disaster by building a portfolio that’s broadly diversified globally and also among different types of assets.
* [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]
	* [[Asset Allocation]] will be the biggest factor in determining your investment returns. So, deciding on the right balance of stocks, [[Bonds]], and alternatives is the most important investment decision you’ll ever make. **Make sure you diversify globally across multiple asset classes. Never bet your future on one country or one asset class.**
	* **Always Have a Cushion.** You never want to be in a position where you’re forced to sell your stock market investments at the worst moment. So it makes sense to maintain a financial cushion, if at all possible. Collect an appropriate amount of income-producing investments such as [[Bonds]], REITs, MLPs, and **dividend-paying stocks**. Diversify broadly within these asset classes. If your stocks crash, you can sell some of those income-producing investments (ideally bonds, since they are liquid) and use the proceeds to invest in the stock market at low prices. (This puts us in a strong position where we can view the [[Bear Markets]] as a friend rather than a fearsome enemy.
* [[Alternative Investments]]
	* Many alternative investments have high minimum buy-in and fee structures, especially when compared to [[Index Funds]], [[Bonds]] and [[Mutual Funds]]. These investments also have less opportunity to publish verifiable performance data and advertise to potential investors.
* [[Market Crash]]
	* Throughout a crash continue to invest heavily in the stock market. Take profits from strong asset classes such as [[Bonds]] and invest the proceeds in weaker asset classes such as US small-cap and large-cap stocks, international stocks, and emerging-markets. Instead of betting on individual companies, buy index fundsto gain instant [[Diversified Returns]] at a low cost across massively undervalued markets.

