---
layout: note
title: The AND Logical Operator
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# The AND Logical Operator

`result = a && b;` **a _and_ b**

The AND operator is represented with two ampersands `&&`. In classical programming, AND returns true if both operands are truthy and false otherwise. In classical programming, AND returns true if both operands are truthy and false otherwise:

```js
alert(true && true); // true
alert(false && true); // false
alert(true && false); // false
alert(false && false); // false
```

An example with if:

```js
let hour = 12;
let minute = 30;
if (hour == 12 && minute == 30) {
  alert('The time is 12:30');
}
```

Just as with OR, any value is allowed as an operand of AND:

```js
if (1 && 0) {
  // evaluated as true && false
  alert("won't work, because the result is falsy");
}
```

## AND `&&` finds the first falsy value

Similar to [[The OR Logical Operator]], which returns the first `true` value. AND will return the first `false` given multiple values (`result = value1 && value2 && value3;`).

The AND `&&` operator does the following:

- Evaluates operands from left to right.
- For each operand, converts it to a boolean. If the result is false, stops and returns the original value of that operand.
- If all operands have been evaluated (_if all were truthy_), returns the last operand.

**AND returns the first falsy value or the last value if none were found.** (Ref:[[Truthy and Falsy Values]]) Examples:

If the first operand is truthy, AND returns the second operand:

```js
alert(1 && 0); // 0
alert(1 && 5); // 5
```

If the first operand is falsy, AND returns it. The second operand is ignored regardless of its value:

```js
alert(null && 5); // null
alert(0 && 'no matter what'); // 0
```

We can pass several truthy values in a row and the first falsy one is returned:

```js
alert(1 && 2 && null && 3); // null
```

When all values are truthy, the last value is returned:

```js
alert(1 && 2 && 3); // 3, the last one
```

## Precedence of AND `&&` is higher than OR `||`

The precedence of the AND `&&` operator is higher than OR `||`. So the code `a && b || c && d` is essentially the same as if the `&&` expressions were in parentheses: `(a && b) || (c && d)`.

## Don’t replace `if` with `||` or `&&`

Sometimes, people use the AND `&&` operator as a "shorter to write `if`". For instance:

```js
let x = 1;

x > 0 && alert('Greater than zero!');
```

The action in the right part of `&&` would execute only if the evaluation reaches it. That is, only if `(x > 0)` is true.

So we basically have an analogue for:

```js
let x = 1;

if (x > 0) alert('Greater than zero!');
```

Although, the variant with `&&` appears shorter, `if` is more obvious and tends to be a more readable. So we recommend using every construct for its purpose: use `if` if we want `if` and use `&&` if we want AND.

## A Quick Note on Alerts

`alert( alert(1) && alert(2) );` will return `1`, then `undefined`.

The call to alert returns `undefined` (it just shows a message, so there’s no meaningful return).
Because of that, `&&` evaluates the left operand (outputs 1), and immediately stops, because `undefined` is a falsy value. And `&&` looks for a falsy value and returns it, so it’s done.

---
## Backlinks
* [[The NOT Logical Operator]]
	* **The precedence of NOT `!` is the highest of all logical operators, so it always executes first, before [[The AND Logical Operator]]\` or [[The OR Logical Operator]].**

