---
layout: note
title: JavaScript Comparisons
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# JavaScript Comparisons

We've already covered some of JavaScripts mathematical comparisons in the section [[JavaScript Operators]]. Here we'll cover different types of comparisons, how JavaScript makes them and important peculiarities. **All comparison operators return a `true/false` boolean result.** A comparison result can be assigned to a variable, just like any other value:

```js
let result = 5 > 4; // assign the result of the comparison
alert(result); // true
```

In order to see if a string is greater than another we use a **string comparison** JavaScript uses the so-called “dictionary” or “lexicographical” order which means that text strings are compared letter by letter.

- `alert( 'Z' > 'A' ); // true`
- `alert( 'Glow' > 'Glee' ); // true`
- `alert( 'Bee' > 'Be' ); // true`

The algorithm to compare two strings is pretty straight forward:

1. Compare the first character of both strings.
2. If the first character from the first string is greater (or less) than the other string’s, then the first string is greater (or less) than the second. We’re done.
3. Otherwise, if both strings’ first characters are the same, compare the second characters the same way.
4. Repeat until the end of either string.
5. If both strings end at the same length, then they are equal. Otherwise, the longer string is greater.

In the examples above, the comparison `'Z' > 'A'` gets to a result at the first step while the strings `"Glow"` and `"Glee"` are compared character-by-character:

1. _G_ is the same as _G_.
2. _I_ is the same as _l_.
3. _o_ is greater than _e_. Stop here. The first string is greater.

> **Unicode order**
> The comparison algorithm given above is roughly equivalent to the one used in dictionaries or phone books, but it’s not exactly the same.
> &npsb;
> For instance, case matters. A capital letter "A" is not equal to the lowercase "a". Which one is greater? The lowercase "a". Why? Because the lowercase character has a greater index in the internal encoding table JavaScript uses (Unicode).

When comparing values of different types, JavaScript converts the values to numbers. For example:

```js
alert('2' > 1); // true, string '2' becomes a number 2
alert('01' == 1); // true, string '01' becomes a number 1
```

For boolean values, true becomes 1 and false becomes 0:

```js
alert(true == 1); // true
alert(false == 0); // true
```

> **A funny consequence**
> It is possible when working with 1's and 0's, that at the same time, Two values are equal and one of them is true as a boolean and the other one is false as a boolean.

```js
let a = 0;
alert(Boolean(a)); // false

let b = '0';
alert(Boolean(b)); // true

alert(a == b); // true!
```

From JavaScript’s standpoint, this result is quite normal. An equality check converts values using the numeric conversion (hence "0" becomes 0), while the explicit Boolean conversion uses another set of rules.

## Strict Equity Checks

As JavaScript operands are converted into numbers when using the equity checker `==`, the problem with a regular equity check is that it cannot differentiate `0` from `false` or an empty string `" "`. A strict equity operator `===` checks the equality without type conversion: `alert( 0 === false );` is false, because the types are different. There is also a “strict non-equality” operator `!==`^[ analogous to ``!=``.]. The strict equality operator makes it obvious what’s going on and leaves less room for errors.

## Null/ Undefined

[[The Null Value]] and undefined equal `==` each other and do not equal any other value. Be careful when using comparisons like `>` or `<` with variables that can occasionally be `null/undefined`. Checking for null/undefined separately is a good idea.

For maths and other comparisons `< > <= >=` `null/undefined` are converted to numbers: `null` becomes `0`, while undefined becomes `NaN`.

---
