---
layout: note
title: Rebalancing
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Rebalancing

## Don't sell out. Rebalance

Over the course of the year, the market value of each security within your portfolio earned a different return, resulting in a weighting change. You find that the weighting of each asset class in your portfolio has changed. Rebalancing entails bringing your portfolio back to your original [[Asset Allocation]] on a regular basis.

Rebalancing is the process of buying and selling portions of your portfolio in order to set the weight of each asset class back to its original state. Or, if an investor's investment strategy or tolerance for risk has changed, she can use rebalancing to readjust the weightings of each security or asset class in the portfolio to fulfill a newly devised [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]

A popular belief among many investors is that if an investment has performed well over the last year, it should perform well over the next year. Unfortunately, past performance is not an indication of future performance. Many investors, however, remain heavily invested in last year's "winning" fund and may drop their portfolio weighting in last year's "losing" fixed-income fund. But remember, equities are more volatile than fixed-income securities, so last year's large gains may translate into losses over the next year.

Unsuccessful investors tend to buy the thing that’s gone up and sell the thing that’s gone down, chasing returns (and their tails). One benefit of rebalancing is that it makes you do the opposite, forcing you to buy assets when they’re out of favor and undervalued. You’ll profit richly when they recover.

**Buy opportunities, but rebalance investments every 13 months.**

---

## Backlinks
* [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]
	* **[[Rebalancing]]** Bring your portfolio back to your original asset allocation on a regular basis. At least once a year.

