---
layout: note
title: Object Oriented Programming
parent: CS & Web Concepts
grand_parent: Home
---

# Object Oriented Programming

## A definition of OOP without talking about cars or humans!

An object could be defined as a self contained program ([[The Unix Philosophy]]) At their core, programs are algorithms + data structures. Objects should communicate with each other in a defined way to create complex operations.

- **Data Structures:** A collection of information managed in an organized way.
- **Algorithms:** A piece of code that manipulates data. A process or set of rules to follow in calculations or problem solving.

Objects provide a safe space for code where the rest of the program will not mess with it.

Makes it easier to modify an object without damaging the rest of the program.

An object is made up of 3 things:

### State

A defined interface that can manipulate .this object. (rather than in terms of manipulating data).

### Operations

### Identity

many objects of the same type, reusing code -> operation on the object of a certain identity.

Object-oriented programming has four basic concepts:

- Encapsulation
- Abstraction
- Inheritance
- Polymorphism

---

## Backlinks
* [[Methods]]
	* [[Object Oriented Programming]]
* [[Classes]]
	* A class is the blueprint for building objects ([[Object Oriented Programming]]). It specifies what operations objects have, provides the code and specifies how the data is stored. Classes create an object with it's own identity.
* [[Classes and Objects]]
	* **Everything in python is an object.** (Ref: [[Object Oriented Programming]]) Objects are an encapsulation of variables, [[Functions]] etc into a single entity. **Objects get their variables and functions from classes. Classes are a template of your objects.** Note: Classes cannot be empty, every class must have at least one object. (*use `pass` if your class is empty*).
* [[API's]]
	* An API will return an *object* back, (see [[Object Oriented Programming]]) whereas [[RESTful Web Services]] will return you the *state of the object* saving a large amount of overhead.
* [[Literals]]
	* With the exception of interface and dynamic (and one or two edge cases), every type in C-Sharp should be derived from objects ([[Object Oriented Programming]]).
* [[Modules]]
	* Modules are like a mini program that can be dropped into your Python programs. Each module is an individual file that can be combined to create a program, app, website or whatever else you can think of. This means you can modify or edit one particular element of your app without affecting the rest (following [[Object Oriented Programming]] principals).
* [[Transclusion]]
	* Backlinks - [[Object Oriented Programming]]
* [[Objects and Symbols]]
	* In JavaScript all other data types are called "primitive" because their values can contain only a single thing. (such as a string, a number or a true/false reading). The `object` type is special as it follows [[Object Oriented Programming]] principals and is **used to store collections of data and more complex entities.**
* [[Personal Learning Path (Backend) - 20/11/2020]]
	* | name       | resource | time | backlinks                       |
| JavaScript |          |      | [JavaScript](../toc/javascript) |
| (Node.js)  |          |      |                                 |
| Python     |          |      | [Python](../toc/python)         |
| OOP        |          |      | [[Object Oriented Programming]] |

