---
layout: note
title: One Function - One Action
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# One Function - One Action

Similar to [[The Unix Philosophy]] **A function should do exactly what is suggested by its name, no more**.

Two independent actions usually deserve two functions, even if they are usually called together (in that case we can make a 3rd function that calls those two).

A few examples of breaking this rule:

- `getAge` – would be bad if it shows an alert with the age (should only get).
- `createForm` – would be bad if it modifies the document, adding a form to it (should only create it and return).
- `checkPermission` – would be bad if it displays the access granted/denied message (should only perform the check and return the result).

These examples assume common meanings of prefixes. You and your team are free to agree on other meanings, but usually they’re not much different. In any case, you should have a firm understanding of what a prefix means, what a prefixed function can and cannot do. All same-prefixed functions should obey the rules. And the team should share the knowledge.

## Functions == Comments

Functions should be short and do exactly one thing. If that thing is big, maybe it’s worth it to split the function into a few smaller functions. Sometimes following this rule may not be that easy, but it’s definitely a good thing. A separate function is not only easier to test and debug – its very existence is a great comment!

For instance, compare the two functions `showPrimes(n)` below. Each one outputs prime numbers up to n.

The first variant uses a label:

```javascript
function showPrimes(n) {
  nextPrime: for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
    for (let j = 2; j < i; j++) {
      if (i % j == 0) continue nextPrime;
    }

    alert(i); // a prime
  }
}
```

The second variant uses an additional function isPrime(n) to test for primality:

```javascript
function showPrimes(n) {
  for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
    if (!isPrime(i)) continue;

    alert(i); // a prime
  }
}

function isPrime(n) {
  for (let i = 2; i < n; i++) {
    if (n % i == 0) return false;
  }
  return true;
}
```

The second variant is easier to understand, isn’t it? Instead of the code piece we see a name of the action (`isPrime`). Sometimes people refer to such code as **self-describing**.

So, functions can be created even if we don’t intend to reuse them. They structure the code and make it readable.

---
