---
layout: note
title: Searching a Strings Properties
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# Searching a Strings Properties

## String Length

The length property, `sln` returns the length of a string:

```js
var txt = 'ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ';
var sln = txt.length;
```

## Finding a String in a String

- The `indexOf()` method returns the index of (_the position of_) the **first** occurrence of a specified text in a string:

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.indexOf('locate');
```

**Remember, JavaScript (and most other languages) counts positions from zero. 0 is the first position in a string, 1 is the second, 2 is the third ..**

- The `lastIndexOf()` method returns the index of the **last** occurrence of a specified text in a string:

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.lastIndexOf('locate');
```

- Both `indexOf()`, and `lastIndexOf()` return -1 if the text is not found.

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.lastIndexOf('John');
```

- Both methods accept a second parameter as the starting position for the search:

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.indexOf('locate', 15); //21
```

- However `lastIndexOf()` **searches backwards** (from the end to the beginning), meaning: if the second parameter is 15, the search starts at position 15, and searches to the beginning of the string.

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.lastIndexOf('locate', 15); //7
```

### Searching for a String in a String

The `search()` method searches a string for a specified value and returns the position of the match, For example:

```js
var str = "Please locate where 'locate' occurs!";
var pos = str.search('locate'); //7
```

_In the above examples `indexOf()` and `search()` returned the same value. They accepted the same arguments (parameters), and returned the same value. However, they are not the same command._

- _`indexOf()` cannot take powerful search values [[Regular Expressions]]._
- _`search()` cannot take a second start position argument._

## Extracting String Characters

There are 3 methods for extracting string characters:

`charAt(position)`
`charCodeAt(position)`
`Property access [ ]`

### The charAt() Method

The `charAt()` method returns the character at a specified index (position) in a string:

```js
var str = 'HELLO WORLD';
str.charAt(0); // returns H
```

### The charCodeAt() Method

The `charCodeAt()` method returns the unicode of the character at a specified index in a string. The method returns a UTF-16 code^[an integer between 0 and 65535.].

```js
var str = 'HELLO WORLD';

str.charCodeAt(0); // returns 72
```

### Property Access

ECMAScript 5 (2009) allows property access [ ] on strings:

```js
var str = 'HELLO WORLD';
str[0]; // returns H
```

Property access might be a little unpredictable:

- It does not work in Internet Explorer 7 or earlier
- It makes strings look like arrays (but they are not)
- If no character is found, [ ] returns undefined, while `charAt()` returns an empty string.
- It is read only. str[0] = "A" gives no error (but does not work!)

```js
var str = 'HELLO WORLD';
str[0] = 'A'; // Gives no error, but does not work
str[0]; // returns H
```

---
