---
layout: note
title: Adding Numbers and Strings
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# Adding Numbers and Strings

> **WARNING !!
> JavaScript uses the + operator for both addition and concatenation.
> Numbers are added. Strings are concatenated (the action of linking things together in a series)**

If you add two numbers together the end result would be a number:

```js
var x = 10;
var y = 20;
var z = x + y;

// z will be 30 (a number)
```

If you add two strings the result would be as string concatenation. Note that the numbers are wrapped in double quotes causing them to be read by JS as a string rather than a number:

```js
var x = '10';
var y = '20';
var z = x + y;

// z will be 1020 (a string)
```

If you add a number and a string, the result will be a string concatenation. Same applys if you a string and a number:

```js
var x = 10;
var y = '20';
var z = x + y;

// z will be 1020 (a string)
```

JavaScript strings can have numeric content `var y = 100` is a number. `vay z = "100"` is a string.

JavaScript will try to convert strings to numbers in all numeric operations. Therefore:

```js
var x = '10';
var y = '10';
var z = x * y;

// z will be 100
```

The same will apply for `/` and `-`. **Although it will be good practice to always type numbers without quote marks and strings with. Especially as a beginner.**

Sometimes you might end up with a number that is stored as a string type, which makes it difficult to perform calculations with it. This most commonly happens when data is entered into a form input, and the input type is text. There is a way to solve this problem — passing the string value into the **Number()** constructor to return a number version of the same value.

**Never write a number with a leading zero (like 07). Some JavaScript versions interpret numbers as octal if they are written with a leading zero.**

If you have a numeric variable that you want to convert to a string without any other changes, or a string variable that you want to convert to a number but not change otherwise, you can use the following two constructs:

The Number object converts anything passed to it into a number:

```js
let myString = '123';
let myNum = Number(myString);
typeof myNum;
```

Conversely, every number has a method called toString() that converts it to the equivalent string. Like this:

```js
let myNum = 123;
let myString = myNum.toString();
typeof myString;
```

These constructs can be really useful in some situations. For example, if a user enters a number into a form's text field, it's a string. However, if you want to add this number to something, you'll need it to be a number, so you could pass it through `Number()` to handle it.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Concatenation in Context]]
	* See also [[Adding Numbers and Strings]]
* [[Strings (Handling Text in JavaScript)]]
	* Concatenate is basically just a fancy way of saying "add together". In JavaScript this is done by using the `+` operator in the same way we would [[Adding Numbers and Strings]]. For example

