---
layout: note
title: Servers
parent: CS & Web Concepts
grand_parent: Home
---

# Servers

Are simply a computer connected directly to the internet. Every server has a unique IP address (Internet protocol address).

Your computer is not a server as it's connected to the internet via a... DSL link to your ISP ==expand==

---

## Backlinks
* [[Clients & Servers]]
	* Computers connected on the web are called **clients** and **[[Servers]]**.
* [[API's]]
	* **Application Programming Interface's** allow software, computers and [[Servers]] on the web to interact and talk to one another. An API works in a similar way to any other web space ([[What happens when you visit a web page]]). An API connects your computer (or device) to dynamic web servers and returns a response. However, unlike a web page it will only return data in the form of [[Json]] or [[XML]].
* [[What happens when you visit a web page]]
	* If the [[Servers]] approve your request, they will send the client a "200 OK" message, which means "Of course you can look at that website! Here it is", and then starts sending the website's files to your browser in a series of data packets.
* [[RESTful Web Services]]
	* [[API's]] will send you data back from web [[Servers]] in the form of an object. This allows us to do many things but downloading all of this data comes with high overheads. This is where RESTful web services come in.
* [[A Mental Model of the Infrastructure of the Internet]]
	* Although the terms are used interchangeably there is a difference. The internet is the technical infrastructure that connects all of the computers on the web. Among these computers are [[Clients & Servers]]. [[Servers]] send messages to your browser.
* [[What happens when you search for content on the web?]]
	* A query string may be added to your request (it will follow a question mark at the end of the path, e.g. /?q=something that I'm searching for). The [[Servers]] receives this request and uses the data in the query string. When the server has calculated the search results it will bundle it up into HTML and return it to you.

