---
layout: note
title: The Unix Philosophy
parent: CS & Web Concepts
grand_parent: Home
---

# The Unix Philosophy

What all of the variations of Unix had in common was the Unix Philosophy; the Bell System Technical Journal explained in 1978:

A number of maxims have gained currency among the builders and users of the Unix system to explain and promote its characteristic style:

1. Make each program do one thing well. To do a new job, build afresh rather than complicate old programs by adding new “features”.
2. Expect the output of every program to become the input to another, as yet unknown, program. Don’t clutter output with extraneous information. Avoid stringently columnar or binary input formats. Don’t insist on interactive input.
3. Design and build software, even operating systems, to be tried early, ideally within weeks. Don’t hesitate to throw away the clumsy parts and rebuild them.
4. Use tools in preference to unskilled help to lighten a programming task, even if you have to detour to build the tools and expect to throw some of them out after you’ve finished using them.

---

## Backlinks
* [[Object Oriented Programming]]
	* An object could be defined as a self contained program ([[The Unix Philosophy]]) At their core, programs are algorithms + data structures. Objects should communicate with each other in a defined way to create complex operations.
* [[One Function - One Action]]
	* Similar to [[The Unix Philosophy]] **A function should do exactly what is suggested by its name, no more**.

