---
layout: note
title: Template Literals (or Embeds)
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# Template Literals (or Embeds)

Template literals are another kind of string syntax. They may also be referred to as **template strings.** The idea is to provide you with more flexible, easy to read strings. To turn a standard string literal into a template literal, you have to replace the quote marks (`' '`, or `" "`) with backtick characters (` `)^[also used for block quotes in markdown, so that's a pain in the arse for the writer].

If we want to concatenate strings, or include expression results inside them, traditional strings can be fiddly to write:

```js
let score = 9;
let highestScore = 10;
let output =
  'I like the song "' +
  song +
  '". I gave it a score of ' +
  (score / highestScore) * 100 +
  '%.';
```

Template literals simplify this enormously:

```js
output = `I like the song "${song}". I gave it a score of ${
  (score / highestScore) * 100
}%.`;
```

There is no more need to open and close multiple string pieces, the whole thing can be wrapped in a single pair of backticks. When you want to include a variable or expression inside the string, you include it inside a `${ }` construct, which is called a placeholder. For example:

```js
let name = 'John';

// embed a variable
alert(`Hello, ${name}!`); // Hello, John!

// embed an expression
alert(`the result is ${1 + 2}`); // the result is 3
```

The expression inside `${…}` is evaluated and the result becomes a part of the string. We can put anything in there: a variable like name or an arithmetical expression like 1 + 2 or something more complex. This can only be done in backticks. Other quotes don’t have this embedding functionality.

`alert( "the result is ${1 + 2}" );` will return "_the result is \${1 + 2}_" (double quotes do nothing)

You can include complex expressions inside template literals, for example:

```js
let examScore = 45;
let examHighestScore = 70;
examReport = `You scored ${examScore}/${examHighestScore} (${Math.round(
  (examScore / examHighestScore) * 100
)}%). ${
  examScore >= 49
    ? 'Well done, you passed!'
    : "Bad luck, you didn't pass this time."
}`;
```

- The first two placeholders here are pretty simple, only including a simple value in the string.
- The third one calculates a percentage result and rounds it to the nearest integer.
- The fourth one includes uses a ternary operator to check whether the score is above a certain mark and print a pass or fail message depending on the result.
  _Another point to note is that if you want to split a traditional string over multiple lines, you need to include a newline character, `\n`:_

```js
output =
  'I like the song "' +
  song +
  '".\nI gave it a score of ' +
  (score / highestScore) * 100 +
  '%.';
```

Template literals respect the line breaks in the source code, so newline characters are no longer needed. This would achieve the same result:

```js
output = `I like the song "${song}".
I gave it a score of ${(score / highestScore) * 100}%.`;
```

I would recommend that you get used to using template literals as soon as possible. They are well-supported in modern browsers, and the only place you'll find a lack of support is Internet Explorer. Many of our examples still use standard string literals, but we will include more template literals going forward.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Strings (Handling Text in JavaScript)]]
	* **Backticks** are “extended functionality” quotes known as [[Template Literals (or Embeds)]]

