---
layout: note
title: The OR Logical Operator
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# The OR Logical Operator

`result = a || b;` - **a _or_ b**

In classical programming languages the _or_ operator is used to manipulate boolean values only. If any of its arguments are `true`, it returns `true`, otherwise it returns `false`. However, in JavaScript the _or_ operatar in a lot more powerful. And complex.

**There are four possible logical combinations**

```js
alert(true || true); // true
alert(false || true); // true
alert(true || false); // true
alert(false || false); // false
```

The result is true in all examples except in the case where both operands are `false`. If an operand is not a boolean, it’s converted to a boolean for the evaluation.

For instance, the number 1 is treated as true, the number 0 as false. `if (1 || 0)` works just like `if (true || false )`. `1 || 1` `0 || 1` `1 || 0` will all return true while `0 || 0` is false.

Most of the time, OR || is used in an if statement to test if any of the given conditions is true, such as:

```js
let hour = 9;

if (hour < 10 || hour > 18) {
  alert('The office is closed.');
}
```

We can also pass more conditions:

```js
let hour = 12;
let isWeekend = true;

if (hour < 10 || hour > 18 || isWeekend) {
  alert('The office is closed.'); // it is the weekend
}
```

## OR `||` finds the first truthy value

- Ref: [[Truthy and Falsy Values]]

This is classical programming logic. But here's the extra "features" of JavaScript. The extended algorithm works as follows given multiple OR’ed values, `result = value1 || value2 || value3;` **it wil work from left to right** converting each operand into a boolean. If the result is `true` it stops and returns the original value of that operand. If the result is `false` it will move on to the next until it finds a true value. If all values are false the it will return the final operand. **A value is returned in it's original form.**

**To put it simply a chain of OR `||` returns the first truthy value or the last one if no truthy value is found.** For instance:

```js
alert(1 || 0); // 1 (1 is truthy)

alert(null || 1); // 1 (1 is the first truthy value)
alert(null || 0 || 1); // 1 (the first truthy value)

alert(undefined || null || 0); // 0 (all falsy, returns the last value)
```

This leads to some quite interesting, or "odd" results depending on who you ask. **_Getting the first truthy value_** from a list of variables or expressions. For instance, we have firstName, lastName and nickName variables, all optional and we use OR `||` to choose the one that has the data and show it (or anonymous if nothing set):

```js
let firstName = '';
let lastName = '';
let nickName = 'SuperCoder';

alert(firstName || lastName || nickName || 'Anonymous'); // SuperCoder
```

Another feature of OR || operator is the so-called **_“short-circuit” evaluation_**. It means that `||` processes its arguments until the first truthy value is reached, and then the value is returned immediately, without even touching the other argument. This is important if an operand isn’t just a value, but an expression with a side effect, such as a variable assignment or a function call.

In the example below, only the second message is printed:

```js
true || alert('not printed');
false || alert('printed');
```

In the first line, the OR `||` operator stops the evaluation immediately upon seeing `true`, so the alert isn’t run. It is possible to execute commands only if the condition on the left is falsy.

## A Quick Note on Alerts

`alert( alert(1) || 2 || alert(3) );` will return first 1, then 2. The call to alert does not return a value. Or, in other words, it returns undefined.

The first OR `||` evaluates its left operand `alert(1)`. That shows the alert.
The alert returns `undefined`, so OR goes on to the second operand searching for the first truthy value.
The second operand `2` is truthy, so the execution is halted, `2` is returned and then shown by the outer alert.
There will be no 3, because the evaluation does not reach `alert(3)`.

---

A common mistake when using the logical OR operator in conditional statements is to try to state the variable whose value you are checking once, and then give a list of values it could be to return true, separated by `||` (OR) operators. For example:

```js
if (x === 5 || 7 || 10 || 20) {
  // run my code
}
```

In this case the condition inside `if(...)` will always evaluate to `true` since 7 (or any other non-zero value) always evaluates to `true`. This condition is actually saying "if x equals 5, or 7 is true."Which it always is. This is logically not what we want! To make this work you've got to specify a complete test either side of each OR operator:

```js
if (x === 5 || x === 7 || x === 10 || x === 20) {
  // run my code
}
```

---
## Backlinks
* [[The AND Logical Operator]]
	* Similar to [[The OR Logical Operator]], which returns the first `true` value. AND will return the first `false` given multiple values (`result = value1 && value2 && value3;`).
* [[The NOT Logical Operator]]
	* **The precedence of NOT `!` is the highest of all logical operators, so it always executes first, before [[The AND Logical Operator]]\` or [[The OR Logical Operator]].**

