---
layout: note
title: Strings (Handling Text in JavaScript)
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# Strings (Handling Text in JavaScript)

==Some text about words and why they are important to humans and how coding languages interperate them. Look this lot up at a later date.==

JavaScript contains a number of features for manipulating strings, creating custom welcome messages and prompts, showing the right text labels when needed, sorting terms into the desired order, and much more.

**A string in JavaScript must be surrounded by quotes `"..."`**

```js
let str = 'Hello';
let str2 = 'Single quotes are ok too';
let phrase = `can embed another ${str}`;
```

In JavaScript, there are 3 types of quotes.

- Double quotes: "Hello".
- Single quotes: 'Hello'.
- Backticks: `Hello`.

Double and single quotes are “simple” quotes with practically no difference between them in JavaScript. However **ensure that you have matching quotes** at either end of your statement. If you don't do this, or miss one of the quotes, JS will return a syntax error. This is because **any text without quotes is assumed to be a variable** in JavaScript.^[Your browser will return either `missing; before statement` or `unterminated string literal`. If your program is raising such errors, then go back and check all your strings to make sure you have no missing quote marks.]

The following will work if you previously defined the variable string:

```js
let badString = string;
badString;
```

`badString` is now set to have the same value as `string`.

Be aware, you can't include the same quote mark inside the string if it's being used to contain them. This will confuses the browser as to where the string ends.

`letbadString = 'I've got no right to take my place...';`

To fix this you can "escape" the problem quote mark by using backslash, `\`^[Escaping a character means that we are doing something to it to make sure it is recognised as text, rather than code.]

```js
let bigmouth = "I've got no right to take my place...";
bigmouth;
```

**Backticks** are “extended functionality” quotes known as [[Template Literals (or Embeds)]]

## Concatenating Strings of Text

See also: [[JavaScript Operators]]

Concatenate is basically just a fancy way of saying "add together". In JavaScript this is done by using the `+` operator in the same way we would [[Adding Numbers and Strings]]. For example

```js
let one = 'Hello, ';
let two = 'how are you?';
let joined = one + two;
joined; //"Hello, how are you?".
```

You can join as many strings as you like, as long as you include the `+` between each pair.:

```js
let multiple = one + one + one + one + two;
multiple; //"Hello, Hello, Hello, Hello, how are you?".
```

You can also use a mix of variables and actual strings, such as:

```js
let response = one + 'I am fine — ' + two;
response; //"Hello, I am fine - how are you?"
```

When you enter an actual string in your code, enclosed in single or double quotes, it is called a **string literal**.

**Note:**

> **There is no character type.**
> In some languages, there is a special “character” type for a single character. For example, in the C language and in Java it is called “char”.
> In JavaScript, there is no such type. There’s only one type: string. A string may consist of only one character or many of them.

## The concat() Method

You can also use the `concat()` method to join two or more strings:

```js
var text1 = 'Hello';
var text2 = 'World';
var text3 = text1.concat(' ', text2);
```

The `concat()` method can be used instead of the plus operator. These two lines do the same:

```js
var text = 'Hello' + ' ' + 'World!';
var text = 'Hello'.concat(' ', 'World!');
```

_All string methods return a new string. They don't modify the original string.
Formally said: Strings are immutable: Strings cannot be changed, only replaced._

**For a complete reference, [go here](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_obj_string.asp). The reference contains descriptions and examples of all string properties and methods.**

---
