---
layout: note
title: Mac Startup Key Combinations
parent: OS and Software Help
grand_parent: Home
---

# Mac Startup Key Combinations

Features and tools that you can access by holding down one or more keys during startup.

To use any of these key combinations, press and hold the keys immediately after pressing the power button to turn on your Mac, or after your Mac begins to restart. Keep holding until the described behavior occurs.

- **Command (⌘)-R:** Start up from the built-in macOS _Recovery_ system.
- **Option-Command-R or Shift-Option-Command-R** to start up from macOS _Recovery over the Internet_. macOS Recovery installs different versions of macOS, depending on the key combination you use while starting up. If your Mac is using a firmware password, you're prompted to enter the password.
- **Option (⌥) or Alt:** Start up to _Startup Manager_, which allows you to choose other available startup disks or volumes. If your Mac is using a firmware password, you're prompted to enter the password.
- **Option-Command-P-R:** _Reset NVRAM or PRAM._ If your Mac is using a firmware password, it ignores this key combination or starts up from macOS Recovery.
- **Shift (⇧):** Start up in _safe mode_. Disabled when using a firmware password.
- **D:** Start up to the Apple _Diagnostics utility_. Or use Option-D to start up to this utility over the Internet. Disabled when using a firmware password.
- **N:** Start up from a _NetBoot server_, if your Mac supports network startup volumes. To use the default boot image on the server, hold down Option-N instead. Disabled when using a firmware password.
- **Command-S:** Start up in _single-user mode_. Disabled in macOS Mojave or later, or when using a firmware password.
- **T:** Start up in _target disk mode_. Disabled when using a firmware password.
- **Command-V:** Start up in _verbose mode_. Disabled when using a firmware password.
- **Eject (⏏) or F12 or mouse button or trackpad button:** _Eject removable media_, such as an optical disc. Disabled when using a firmware password.

## If a key combination doesn't work

Be sure to press and hold all keys in the combination together, not one at a time.
Shut down your Mac. Then press the power button to turn on your Mac. Then press and hold the keys as your Mac starts up.
Wait a few seconds before pressing the keys, to give your Mac more time to recognize the keyboard as it starts up. Some keyboards have a light that flashes briefly at startup, indicating that the keyboard is recognized and ready for use.
If you're using a wireless keyboard, plug it into your Mac, if possible. Or use your built-in keyboard or a wired keyboard. If you're using a keyboard made for a PC, such as a keyboard with a Windows logo, try a keyboard made for Mac.
If you're using Boot Camp to start up from Microsoft Windows, set Startup Disk preferences to start up from macOS instead. Then shut down or restart and try again.
Remember that some key combinations are disabled when your Mac is using a firmware password.

---
