---
layout: note
title: Callback Functions
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# Callback Functions

Let’s look at more examples of passing functions as values and using function expressions.

We’ll write a function `ask(question, yes, no)` with three parameters:

1. Text of the question
2. Function to run if the answer is “Yes”
3. Function to run if the answer is “No”

The function should ask the question and, depending on the user’s answer, call `yes()` or `no()`:

```javascript
function ask(question, yes, no) {
  if (confirm(question)) yes();
  else no();
}
```

```javascript
function showOk() {
  alert( "You agreed." );
}

function showCancel() {
  alert( "You canceled the execution." );
}

// usage: functions showOk, showCancel are passed as arguments to ask
function ask("Do you agree?", showOk, showCancel) {
	if (confirm("Do you agree")) showOk()
	else showCancel();
};
```

In practice, such functions are quite useful. The major difference between a real-life ask and the example above is that real-life functions use more complex ways to interact with the user than a simple confirm. In the browser, such function usually draws a nice-looking question window. But that’s another story.

The arguments `showOk` and `showCancel` of ask are called callback functions or just callbacks.

The idea is that we pass a function and expect it to be “called back” later if necessary. In our case, `showOk` becomes the callback for “**yes**” answer, and `showCancel` for “**no**” answer.

We can use Function Expressions to write the same function much shorter:

```javascript
function ask(question, yes, no) {
  if (confirm(question)) yes();
  else no();
}

ask(
  'Do you agree?',
  function () {
    alert('You agreed.');
  },
  function () {
    alert('You canceled the execution.');
  }
);
```

Here, functions are declared right inside the ask(...) call. They have no name, and so are called anonymous. Such functions are not accessible outside of ask (because they are not assigned to variables), but that’s just what we want here.

Such code appears in our scripts very naturally, it’s in the spirit of JavaScript.

## A function is a value representing an “action”

- Regular values like strings or numbers represent the data.
- A function can be perceived as an action.
- We can pass it between variables and run when we want.

---
## Backlinks
* [[JavaScript Functions]]
	* [[Callback Functions]]

