---
layout: note
title: Asset Allocation
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Asset Allocation

Nobody can ever know what the market will do so design an asset allocation that, even if your wrong, you’ll still be okay. **By owning about 15 uncorrelated investments, you can reduce your overall risk by about 80%** and you’ll increase the return-to-risk ratio by a factor of five. So, **your return is five times greater by reducing that risk.**

Asset allocation is simply a matter of establishing the right mix of different types of investments, diversifying among them in such a way that you reduce your risks and maximize your rewards.

Different asset classes don’t usually move in tandem and **success is largely dependent on smart asset allocation.** By knowing precisely how much of your money to put in different asset classes such as [[Stock Markets]], [[Bonds]], real estate, gold, and cash (see also; [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]), you can protect yourself against disaster by building a portfolio that’s broadly diversified globally and also among different types of assets.

> It also helps to write down your reasons for investing in each of the assets in your portfolio, since inevitably there will be times a particular asset class or investment performs poorly, sometimes for several years. Yo may lose faith because by focusing on the short term. But when the going gets tough, you’ll be able to look over these notes and remind yourself why you own each asset and how it serves your long-term goals. As long as your needs haven’t changed and your assets are still aligned with your goals, you can sit tight and give your investments the time they need to prove their value.

There’s almost always an asset class or a country or a market that’s getting clobbered, presenting you with equally enticing opportunities for [[Asymmetric Risk Reward]].

**See also: [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]**

---
## Backlinks
* [[Index Funds]]
	* Index funds take a “passive” approach to [[Asset Allocation]] that eliminates almost all trading activity. nstead of trading in and out of the market, they simply buy and hold every stock in an index
* [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]
	* [[Asset Allocation]] will be the biggest factor in determining your investment returns. So, deciding on the right balance of stocks, [[Bonds]], and alternatives is the most important investment decision you’ll ever make. **Make sure you diversify globally across multiple asset classes. Never bet your future on one country or one asset class.**
* [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]
	* Holding cash is a poor [[Asset Allocation]] strategy. Does not provide you with [[Diversified Returns]] and does not [[Compound Interest]] over time.
* [[Inflation]]
	* When your [[Asset Allocation]] allows holding tangible assets, like property or stocked commodities, you may like to see some inflation as that raises the value of your assets.
* [[Rebalancing]]
	* Over the course of the year, the market value of each security within your portfolio earned a different return, resulting in a weighting change. You find that the weighting of each asset class in your portfolio has changed. Rebalancing entails bringing your portfolio back to your original [[Asset Allocation]] on a regular basis.

