---
layout: note
title: Bonds
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Bonds

A bond is a loan to a government, a company, or some other entity. When you lend money to the federal government, it’s called a Treasury bond. When you lend money to a city, state, or county, it’s a municipal bond. When you lend money to a company such as Microsoft, it’s a corporate bond. And when you lend money to a less dependable company, it’s called a high-yield bond (or a junk bond). As an asset class, bonds deliver positive calendar-year returns approximately 85% of the time.

Corporate bonds are typically seen as riskier (see: [[Asymmetric Risk Reward]]) than government bonds, they usually have higher interest rates. Bonds have different features than stocks and their prices tend to be less correlated, making bonds a good diversifier for investment portfolios.

In general, bonds are considered to be more conservative investments than stocks and also typically pay regular interest payments to investors. As a result, bond prices vary inversely with interest rates, falling when rates go up and vice-versa. Because bonds pay a steady interest stream, called the coupon, owners of bonds have to pay regular income taxes on the funds received. For this reason, bonds are best kept in a tax sheltered account, like an IRA, to gain tax advantages not present in a standard brokerage account.

They are generally much safer than stocks because the borrower is legally required to repay you. If you hold a bond to maturity, you’ll receive all of your original loan back, plus the interest payments—unless the bond issuer goes bankrupt.

---
