---
layout: note
title: What happens when you visit a web page
parent: CS & Web Concepts
grand_parent: Home
---

# What happens when you visit a web page

1. When you click a link or type a URL (Uniform Resource Locator)^[The URL is a way of addressing pages and resources online. (URL's will be formatted as such: _Protocol (eg, http)://Host (server)/Path( the specific location of the resource being requested_).) into your browser, the browser is matching the [[IP Address]] in the [[DNS]] from your browser to the server.
2. The browser sends an HTTP request to the server, asking it to send a copy of the website to your client. This message, and all other data sent between the [[Clients & Servers]], is sent across your internet connection using TCP/IP.
3. If the [[Servers]] approve your request, they will send the client a "200 OK" message, which means "Of course you can look at that website! Here it is", and then starts sending the website's files to your browser in a series of data packets.
4. The browser assembles the packets into a complete website and displays it to you. All this usually happens in a matter of micro-seconds. Awesome!

---
## Backlinks
* [[API's]]
	* **Application Programming Interface's** allow software, computers and [[Servers]] on the web to interact and talk to one another. An API works in a similar way to any other web space ([[What happens when you visit a web page]]). An API connects your computer (or device) to dynamic web servers and returns a response. However, unlike a web page it will only return data in the form of [[Json]] or [[XML]].

