---
layout: note
title: JavaScript Basics
parent: JavaScript
grand_parent: Home
---

# JavaScript Basics

ref: Mozilla [JavaScript reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)

**JavaScript is a programming language (unlike HTML and CSS) that adds interactivity to your website.** Such as in games, pushing buttons, animations. **In short it adds interactivity to websites.** There are similarities to Java, but also stark differences. Java is used to create complex applications, but it must first be compiled by another program. **Javascript is a text-based language that must be run through the browser and set in an HTML document.** It is a **client-side language**. When you hit up a website the server will send the code back to your browser where it will be compiled. (Server side languages compile the code on the server then show you the result)

Java performs logical and interactive operations, such as altering the content, style or data of a web page without that page ‘reloading’ (For example updates to a web page as you scroll). Web developers use JavaScript to design interactivity for a website (such as page effects and buttons). Actions like real-time communication, loading emails, and browser extensions all rely on Javascript to properly function and deliver a high user experience. With more experience, you'll be able to create games, animated 2D and 3D graphics, comprehensive database-driven apps, and much more!

**JavaScript itself is very compact, yet very flexible.** Smart developers have written many tools that unlock a vast amount of functionality without much hassle. For example:

- Browser **Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)** built into web browsers, _providing functionality such as dynamically creating HTML and setting CSS styles_; collecting and manipulating a video stream from a user's webcam, or generating 3D graphics and audio samples.
- Third-party APIs that allow developers to incorporate functionality in sites from other content providers, such as Twitter or Facebook.
- Third-party frameworks and libraries that you can apply to HTML to accelerate the work of building sites and applications.

JavaScript can be routed to from your HTML doc as follows.
`<script src="scripts/main.js"></script>`
(Where `main.js` is your JavaScript file)

_It's worth noting that these features are common to all programming languages. If you master these fundamentals, you have a head start on coding in other languages too!_

---
