---
layout: note
title: Diversified Returns
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Diversified Returns

Investment does not relate specifically to the stock market, you could invest in anything that you think will have an upward trajectory or percentage return. **Find those items that offer the lowest risk/ highest return.** Diversification is an admission that you don’t know which particular asset class, stock or bond (or which country) will do best. So own a bit of everything

Think in terms of what offers the best returns. You do not need to be tied to [[Stock Markets]]. For example, the help to save account (UK only), if you are eligible, offers a guranteed return rate of 50% over 4 years. Beat that in the market! **Look for opportunities everywhere,** low risk, high reward.

Avoid putting all your money in real estate, stocks, bonds, or any single investment class. Diversify within asset classes. Don’t put all your money in a favorite stock such as Apple, or a single MLP, or one piece of waterfront real estate that could be washed away in a storm. Diversify across markets, countries, and currencies around the world. We live in a global economy, so don’t make the mistake of investing solely in your own country.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Bear Markets]]
	* The most successful investors take advantage of all that fear and gloom, using [[Effective Money Management]] in these tumultuous periods as \*\*an opportunity to invest at bargain prices to create more [[Diversified Returns]] “The best opportunities come in times of maximum pessimism.”
* [[Index Funds]]
	* Index funds allow you to invest, **at minimal cost,** in a portfolio designed for [[Diversified Returns]] and carry minimal fees as low as 0.05%. (Active investors as a group will receive the same gross return minus 2% or more). They have historiclly outpaced the market.
	* Index funds can be highly profitble in a [[Bear Markets]] (or [[Corrections]]) to give you instant [[Diversified Returns]] (at a low cost) across massively undervalued markets.
* [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]
	* Holding cash is a poor [[Asset Allocation]] strategy. Does not provide you with [[Diversified Returns]] and does not [[Compound Interest]] over time.
* [[Inflation]]
	* [[Holding Cash is a Bad Investment]]? Natural inflation erodes the value of cash holdings. [[Diversified Returns]] can help to decrease the risk of that happening.
* [[Market Crash]]
	* Throughout a crash continue to invest heavily in the stock market. Take profits from strong asset classes such as [[Bonds]] and invest the proceeds in weaker asset classes such as US small-cap and large-cap stocks, international stocks, and emerging-markets. Instead of betting on individual companies, buy index fundsto gain instant [[Diversified Returns]] at a low cost across massively undervalued markets.

