---
layout: note
title: Index Funds
parent: Wealth Creation
grand_parent: Home
---

# Index Funds

_Index funds are simple. Rather than try to time the market or outguess other professional money managers about the prospects of individual stocks, index funds simply buy and hold all of the stocks in a broad market index such as the S&P 500._

An unmanaged basket of leading [[Stock Markets]] stocks such as the S&P 500. The fund simply owns all the stocks in the index (for example, they would own all 500 stocks in the S&P 500). They make very few trades, so their transaction costs and tax bills are incredibly low. They also save on other expenses such as active fund managers and their teams.

Index funds take a “passive” approach to [[Asset Allocation]] that eliminates almost all trading activity. nstead of trading in and out of the market, they simply buy and hold every stock in an index

One big advantage of owning an index fund that tracks a basket of stocks such as the S&P 500 is that the weaker companies intermittently get culled and replaced by stronger ones.

Index funds allow you to invest, **at minimal cost,** in a portfolio designed for [[Diversified Returns]] and carry minimal fees as low as 0.05%. (Active investors as a group will receive the same gross return minus 2% or more). They have historiclly outpaced the market.

In a study performed by researchers Richard Bauer and Julie Dahlquist (over more than a million market-timing sequences from 1926 to 1999) they found that holding the market (via an index fund) outperformed more than 80% of market-timing strategies.

Index funds can be highly profitble in a [[Bear Markets]] (or [[Corrections]]) to give you instant [[Diversified Returns]] (at a low cost) across massively undervalued markets.

---
## Backlinks
* [[Investment Goals]]
	* The core of your portfolio should be invested in [[Index Funds]] that simply match the market’s return. But at the margins, it can make sense to explore additional strategies that offer a reasonable chance of outperformance.
* [[A Customized Approach to Asset Allocation]]
	* **Use [[Index Funds]] for the Core of Your Portfolio because they give you broad diversification in the most low-cost, tax-efficient way.** They beat almost all [[Hedge Funds]] and [[Mutual Funds]] over the long run. For maximum diversification, we want exposure to stocks of all sizes: large-cap, midcap, small-cap, and microcap. By diversifying so broadly, you protect yourself against the risk that one part of the market might get crushed. By indexing, you enjoy the long-term upward trajectory of the market without letting fees & taxes corrode your returns.
* [[Mutual Funds]]
	* Mutual funds are actively managed, which means they’re run by people who attempt to pick the best investments at the best time. Their goal is to “beat the market.” They’ll attempt to outperform unmanaged [[Index Funds]] such as the S&P 500 index. The difference is, actively managed mutual fund companies charge fat fees in return for this service.
	* Of the 248 mutual stock funds with five-star ratings at the start of the period, just four still kept that rank after 10 years. Hypothetically, if your [[Index Funds]] outperform those actively managed funds by 1% annually. In total, you’ve added 2% a year to your returns. This alone can give you 20 years of extra retirement income.
* [[Alternative Investments]]
	* Many alternative investments have high minimum buy-in and fee structures, especially when compared to [[Index Funds]], [[Bonds]] and [[Mutual Funds]]. These investments also have less opportunity to publish verifiable performance data and advertise to potential investors.

