# Flawless Consulting
**Date**: 04/20
**Author**: Peter Block
**Tags**:
**Status**: In progress
**Referance to**: [[Maykind Challenges for 2020]]
## Highlites
* This means that living with a vulnerable present and an uncertain future is going to be a permanent condition. This situation bodes well for the world of consulting. The more complexity, confusion, and uncertainty in our lives, the more we realize we cannot go it alone or keep doing what we have been doing. The demand for help and advice should keep growing. The profound uncertainty of our lives, both personally and at work, also results in more and more people functioning in a consultative stance. The essence of this stance is that of wanting to have influence when you do not have direct control. This challenge is true not just for consultants; it is true for people who used to be in charge: bosses, teachers, preachers, doctors, sergeants, mayors, and, not least of all, parents. Permanent vulnerability and uncertainty demand a level of relatedness based on listening, authenticity, and not knowing. This is what makes command-and-control behavior increasingly obsolete. Not all of us get this, but sooner or later, we are going to develop our capacity for deeper relatedness and partnership or we will be looking for a new job sooner than our careful planning might have indicated.
* In consulting terms, we need more balanced contracting, more joint discovery, and a new dialogue.
* True reform will shift our thinking about the culture of the classroom, accountability of the learner, and the relationship between teacher and student.
* In addition to living with permanent uncertainty, we are living increasingly virtual lives. Many of our relationships are long distance. We are part of virtual teams spread too far to ever be in the same room together. We are more and more dependent on electronic interaction. We speak to friends by writing on an electronic wall, and we substitute webinars for seminars. Soon we will be able to hold all our conversations, be entertained, find a life partner, and visually be with our family all on a handheld device. Despite the growth of the virtual world, our days are still occasionally populated with live human beings and when we are in the room with others, we need to get to the point and make the most of it. Playing roles, being vague, speaking in generalities, and getting to the point in the last five minutes waste the uniqueness of having all our senses available when we are face-to-face. We want to take advantage of real meetings to become personally connected in ways powerful enough to overcome the distancing and isolating effects inherent in an electronic connection.
* Giving feedback is part of every consulting or support effort, but almost every meeting is one where ideas or analyses are presented with the intent of improving or shifting a person’s or organisation’s strategy or operation. We still spend way too much time making our point, often our PowerPoint, without realizing that the purpose of most meetings is not to make a point, or express ideas, or to sell something but to move something forward.
* Ideas should be accessible and written in everyday language.
* What needs reaffirmation in this edition of the book is that teams and personal relationships are still critical to technical and business success.
* What is still difficult about authenticity is that it is a high-risk strategy.
* A consultant is a person in a position to have some influence over an individual, a group, or an organisation but has no direct power to make changes or implement programs. A manager is someone who has direct responsibility over the action. The moment you take direct responsibility, you are acting as a manager.
* at another level, both you and the client are generating and sensing your feelings about each other—whether you feel acceptance or resistance, whether you feel high or low tension, whether you feel support or confrontation. So your relationship to the client during each phase is a second level of data that needs attention just as the content does.
* There is much more to the client-consultant relationship than the simple content of the problem or project the consultant is working on. Feelings are the affective side of the discussion and an important source of information for the consultant—information about the client’s real concerns and what the possibilities are for establishing a good relationship.
* A major objective of every consultation is to encourage you to Focus on and value the affective, or interpersonal, aspect of the relationship you have with the client. Most of us have a great deal of experience working at the cognitive or content level of discussion. We come to a meeting equipped with our expertise, and we feel quite comfortable talking about problems we know something about. But there should be equal balance in the attention given to the content of the problem and the feelings you are having about the interaction that is taking place as you are working with the client.
* To have a good contract with the client, responsibility for what is planned and takes place has to be balanced—50/50. In most cases, the client comes to you with the expectation that once you are told what the problem is, you provide the solution. Your goal is to act out the fact that it’s a 50/50 proposition. Here is a small example. When you start a program, communication on the program is often required—when it will take place, what the arrangements are, why you’re doing it. It’s important that the client take the responsibility of communicating all of this to the organisation—not because it’s a task that only the client can do (in fact, the consultant might be in a better position to do it) but because it’s a way of visibly expressing to the organisation that the client is taking at least 50 percent of the responsibility for the program. If the client wants the consultant to do this communicating and take care of all the administrative details, the client is saying that he or she wants to take a limited amount of responsibility. As a consultant, it makes sense at times to resist taking on this responsibility. This is a substantively small issue, but it’s an example of what to look for in trying to decide in your own mind whether the responsibility is balanced.
* Using valid data eliminates a major cause of confusion, uncertainty, and resulting inefficiency in problem solving.
* Making decisions is easy. Making decisions that people will support is not so easy. organisations seem to work better when people have an opportunity to influence decisions that have a direct impact on their work.
* Goal 1: Establish a Collaborative relationship There are two reasons for consultants to strive for collaborative relationships with their clients. One is that a collaborative relationship promises maximum use of people’s resources—both the consultant’s and the client’s. It also spreads the responsibility for success or failure and for implementation, and it’s a nice way to work too. The second reason is that whether they know it or not, consultants are always functioning as models of how to solve problems. The message contained in the way consultants act is much more powerful than their words. To talk collaboration and behave differently is confusing and self-defeating.

#tk/business&growth
