# You Are a Badass at Making Money
**Date**: 2019
**Author**: Jen Sincero
**Tags**: self-help,
**Status**: Complete **Review Notes**
## Highlites
* We’ve been raised to believe that you have to work hard to make money, and certainly there are times when this is true, but the real secret is you have to take huge, uncomfy risks. You have to do stuff you’ve never done before, to make yourself visible, to acknowledge your own awesomeness, to risk looking stupid. You must not only admit to desiring, and commit to creating, wealth, but, most important, you must allow yourself to do so.
* Whatever may be said in praise of poverty, the fact remains that it is not possible to live a really complete or successful life unless one is rich.
* One of the biggest obstacles to making lots of money is not a lack of good ideas or opportunities or time, or that we’re too slovenly or stupid, it’s that we refuse to give ourselves permission to become rich.
* RICH: Able to afford all the things and experiences required to fully experience your most authentic life.
* A healthy desire for wealth is not greed, it’s a desire for life.
* We all have seeds of unthinkable badassery inside of us, yet only some of us will allow ourselves to grow.
* In fact: If you are here to become the grandest, most generous version of yourself, which you are, and if that costs money, which it does, it is your duty, as a hallowed child of Mother Nature, to get rich.
* Humans are curious by nature, our desire to keep evolving physically, mentally, and spiritually is part of who we are, which is why settling, staying stuck in a rut, treading the lukewarm water of mediocrity (or worse) is so excruciating.
* All of Mother Nature’s creatures are designed to fully flourish before they drop dead.
* Because of the way our world is structured, money and power are intertwined, so if you want to help make a positive change, money is one of the most effective tools you can use to do it.
* You cannot give what you do not have, so if you want to help others you have to take care of yourself first. This is why they always tell you on airplanes that you have to put your oxygen mask on first before you help someone else with theirs.
* Charles, 54, went from making $20,000 a year to over $145,000 a year in less than seven months: I always thought I loved money, but I realized after a while I had a problem with it because I never made any. After some serious introspection I realized that because I grew up poor in a broken home and my father never paid us a cent in child support, the message that I received, and came to accept as truth, is that I’m not worth anything. So throughout my life, as opportunities came along I would somehow allow that underlying belief to sabotage any success.
* Our “realities” are make-believe—whatever we make ourselves believe, we experience.
* Your external world is a mirror of your internal world.
* If you can make yourself believe the thoughts that are screwing up your financial life, i.e., I can’t make money because of X (I’m a single mom, I live in the middle of nowhere, I’m an idiot, etc.), you can make yourself unbelieve them too. This is how powerful we are and how deceptively simple changing our lives is—we can literally create the reality we desire by making ourselves think and believe what we desire to think and believe. How awesome is that?!
* Our beliefs, along with our thoughts and words, are at the root of everything we experience in life, which is why consciously choosing what rolls around in your mind and falls out of your mouth is one of the most important things you can do. This conscious choosing of your thoughts, beliefs, and words is called mastering your mindset, and master it you must if you’d like to live large and in charge instead of being bossed around by your circumstances.
* It’s primal. The subconscious mind’s number one concern is survival. As a little baby who can’t take care of or fend for itself, losing love and being abandoned literally equals death, so anytime we come near to putting ourselves at risk, the Little Prince goes crazy and tries to stop us. This is one of the main reasons we stay stuck in lives we’re not nuts about—we don’t wanna risk trying and failing, trying and succeeding, losing weight, getting rich, having a new opinion, a new love life, a new strut in our step for fear the people we love will reject us when we change. While this may work for a little kid who’s doing the best he can to survive, it sucks for an adult.
* if you believe that struggling is more noble than succeeding because that’s what your parents taught you, and that everyone who loves you as you used to be will judge and abandon you when you’re rich, your subconscious self might attempt to “protect” you by suddenly getting the flu, by picking fights with people who can help you, by inspiring you to procrastinate, make terrible investments, drink your face off the night before (or morning of) an important meeting, etc.
* I told myself pretty much every day for forty years that I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and, as a result, remained in the fetal position of hopelessness and confusion for decades. Had I replaced the phrase “I don’t know” with “Clues are all around me!” I would have opened myself up to receive tidbits of clarity instead of slamming the door on lawd only knows how many golden opportunities. What comes out of your mouth comes in to your life.
* There are a whole bunch of tricks that will help you unearth your deep-seated, money-repelling subconscious beliefs, and I’m going to start with the most powerful, which is this: Hurl yourself into the fire. Run face-first toward your biggest fear. Take big, audacious action in the direction of your dreams and do not let the fact that you’re wetting your pants stop you.
* BUSTING YOURSELF TIP 1: BUM-RUSH YOUR FEARS. Figure out something you can do right now that will take you a giant step closer to your goal of getting rich. Make sure it’s something scary, something that you’d really rather not do because it’s super uncomfy, something
* Here are some phrases to watch for with others and yourself: I want (= I lack) I wish (but I’m not in control = disempowering) I need (cuz I ain’t got = lack) I can’t (obv) I’m trying (but I’m not committed) I hope (might happen/might not = lacks faith) I should (but maybe I won’t and maybe I don’t wanna) I don’t know (spoken as truth, slams door shut on finding out) Here are some excellent replacements: I have I create I’m grateful for I enjoy I can I choose I love
* Additionally, two words we need to be particularly stealth about sniffing out are the words “I know.”* Nothing slams the door on further investigation and radical action faster than Yeah, I know it’s important to be aware of my thoughts. No need to explain—next topic! They’re very sneaky words because we tend to think we’re rather impressive for knowing things, when in reality, no matter how much we “know,” there are always more sides to the story, giant leaps of faith, and an infinite number of questions that could massively expand our awareness. Especially in the realm of self-helpery, where we often need to hear things over and over and over before they click, it’s critical to stay wide-eyed and wondering. The other thing “I know” does is shut us off from receiving information from Universal Intelligence. When we’re so convinced by, and attached to, what our brains are telling us, we lose out on receiving this much deeper knowledge. What we’re basically doing is acting like we’re smarter than Universal Intelligence, the stuff that created all that is in our infinite Universe, meanwhile we can barely remember which day is trash day. *IMPORTANT “I KNOW” NOTE: You have clearance to use “I know” when used as a confirmation of awesomeness, as in “I know I can make buttloads of money, I know I am a badass motherfucker,” etc.
* One of my favorite sayings is: “A wise man once said nothing.” I love this quote on so many levels because it reminds us that when we get silent, step out of the way, and listen to the big smarty-pants known as our intuition and the Universe, true wisdom can reach us. And flow out of us. And that so much of what falls out of our mouths is about Look at me! I’m going to tell you five million awesome things about myself so that you will love me! I’m gonna make fun of myself before anyone else can so I don’t feel stupid–type stuff. Words are powerful tools for connecting with our fellow humans, to share with them information, love, hilarity, ideas, chicken piccata recipes. The more you slow down and shut up, the better chance you have to make powerful choices, and the more space you have to catch yourself in the moment and ask: Why am I about to say this?
* Whether you realize it or not, you’re having a relationship with money. If you ain’t got any money, it’s because if you treated the people in your life with the same regard you treat money, you’d be dining on a Thanksgiving chicken for one every November.
* Dear money, I love you and respect you and try really hard to use you wisely, but I often feel like I let you down. Unless I work really hard I don’t feel I deserve to have more of you in my life. I know all the wonderful things that we can do together: enjoy amazing vacations, bless my family, give to charities I believe in, and yet I often don’t feel I deserve to have more of you in my life.
* You have to want your dreams more than you want your drama.
* I want to caution you against getting so wrapped up in Processing your blocks that you don’t take the action necessary to change your life. I’ve seen many cases where people get so obsessed with their issues that they spend years journaling, going to retreats, weepily deconstructing their inner selves as an excuse not to take giant scary leaps forward. So I want to encourage you to do both at the same time:
* Doubts, fears, and other people’s rules are no match for a heart on a mission.
* How is more money going to add value to your life? How will getting rich change who you’re being in the world? Which of your gifts are you the most excited to share in exchange for money? Where do you feel you bring the most value to your fellow earthlings? How does it feel to share your biggest, badassiest self with others?
* In order to inspire ourselves to make money, the exciting kind that we’ve never made before, we need to be… excited about it. And because money on its own is a meaningless pile of paper and coins, you’re gonna want to get crystal clear about what the money is for, what it means to you, and how it makes you feel. This will be that fire for you. Vague aspirations lead to vague results; specific aspirations lead to kicking ass.
* When we push against who we naturally are, we feel stress, things don’t progress easily, we beat ourselves up for getting crappy results, everything is an effort. This is why listening to what everyone else thinks you should be doing (including your scaredy-cat self) is so deadly. You wind up trying to force your way through life, which can make sitting on your butt at a desk all day utterly exhausting if it’s not what you want to do. Meanwhile, when you listen to your heart and connect with who you’re meant to become, you have energy because you’re in a state of flow, things happen more easily, opportunities land in your lap, you’re turned on, inspired, engulfed in a sea of brilliant ideas. Yes, there will be challenges and things will blow up in your face, but learning experiences are different from wasting your life pushing a boulder up a hill.
* Pay attention to the things you’re drawn to, the things you’re good at, the things you lose yourself in, the things that make you stand up and say, “My foot! I can’t feel my foot!” because you’ve been sitting in the same position for hours, totally engrossed. Allow yourself to be pulled by your heart instead of pushing your way through a thick fog of shoulds. So often we discredit the things that come naturally because we’ve bought into the idea that success needs to be difficult, or that if something comes easily to us, it must come easily to everyone, and therefore isn’t worth pursuing in any serious sort of way.
* Instead of looking to where you can cut back, save, and play it safe, look to how you can expand, grow, and start acting like a badass who’s in control of your own life: Have a big fancy career AND be a great mom. Be a good Christian AND make tons of money. Travel the world AND run your own business. Be at your desired weight AND eat chicken wings. Get a time-share AND save for your old age.
* As you take the time to imagine your life as the biggest, boldest, and most authentic expression of the you that is you, don’t be a cheapskate when it comes to taking inventory of what lights up your heart. Act as if you live in an abundant Universe (which you do) and have the ability to create whatever financial reality you desire (which you can), and that by doing this you’ll be sharing the most magnificent version of yourself with the world (which you will). OPEN WIDE I know I just spent several pages screaming about the importance of specifics, but you must also stay open to allow Universal Intelligence to deliver what you need, and the thing or person or opportunity that makes your heart sing may be in a different form than the one you were thinking. Once again, we must trust that the Universe knows more than we do, and if we white knuckle it over things like, “I see myself making $12,500 by selling three extra cars at my dealership this month,” you will block the very same riches that the Universe is trying to hand you via a film company renting out your showroom to use in a movie. Your job is to envision your life with all the specifics you can muster up so you can get all emotional and excited and take inspired action. Then you hand the rest over to the Universe. Otherwise known as surrendering, this is a key factor in consciously managing your energy to create an awesome reality for yourself.
* Take action on what you do know. If there are bits and pieces that you are sure of, that feel totally right, Focus on those instead of waiting until you’ve got the entire picture figured out.
* Stop saying how clueless you are about what to do with your life (what you Focus on you create more of) and talk about how excited you are to be filling in the pieces.
* You can have your excuses or you can have success. You can’t have both. Whichever outcome you train your mind on dictates the reality you see before you.
* What you Focus on you create more of. This is such a simple concept, but it bears repeating over and over, and I will repeat it over and over, because it’s so damn powerful and so immediately flung out the window because we’re so attached to “the way things are.” We don’t want to believe that things could be that easy, to give up our right to feel sorry for ourselves, to relinquish the comfort we take in knowing a thing or two based on our past experiences, and to, erm, take responsibility for our lives instead of being like, I can barely afford to buy a bag of Fritos, how am I supposed to hire someone to get my Web site up and running?
* Worrying is praying for stuff you don’t want.
* The thoughts, beliefs, and emotions we don’t consciously reject, we unconsciously accept.
* Riches come to those who believe anything is possible even when all signs point to No Way in Hell.
* you want to change your life, you must be more available for the ridiculous than your reality.
* For me, making money was about freedom and options. Getting my ass out of debt, traveling the world, moving to a house where I could entertain more than two people at a time were all great incentives, but what really got me rolling up my sleeves every morning was my determination to become a different person. I wanted to be someone who created whatever I set my mind to instead of someone who settled for what I could get.
* Your role is to keep your mindset strong, open, and ready to receive. And to do a whole lotta stuff you’ve never done before. Especially stuff that scares the living crap out of you and hurls you outside your comfort zone.
* When it comes to changing your life, if you’re not scared, you’re doing something wrong.
* An excuse is nothing but a challenge that you’ve given your power to.
* The big secret to getting rich isn’t so much about brilliant plans or hard work or good connections or amazing timing as it is about thoughts and emotions.
* “Do you want to be broke and cool or rich and cheesy?”
* You can’t experience new lands from the confines of your comfort zone.
* The Universe will always send you what you need. It wants you to succeed, it wants you to grow and blossom and shine, it’s the law of nature fer fek’s sake. But just like the emperor penguin that has to carry
* For the first few years of my business, I lived a dual life. I was terrified that my friends and fellow musicians (I’d been in rock bands for years) would stumble upon my goobery online marketing materials. I also lived in fear that my new book proposal clients would discover pictures of me in my punk band, Crotch, wasted and rocking out wearing a hair bikini, and politely ask for their money back. For years I tossed and turned in the midst of this major identity crisis, but my determination to make money was more important than my discomfort over what I had to do to make it. If I had to look cheesy, I did. If I had to spend even more money on hiring tech people to help me, I did. If I had to go to endless amounts of networking events and hand out my business card, I did.
* How determined you are determines your outcome.
* You can’t: Be weird about the fact that you not only desire to get rich, but that you’re going to Focus everything you’ve got on making it happen. Make sure everything is perfect before starting. There’s a fine line between perfectionism and procrastination. Get the damn Web site up, the business cards made, the headshots taken, whatever—get yourself in the position to start bringing in money and deal with fine-tuning it later. Be precious about getting rid of all the distractions in your life. Distractions are like unwanted hair. Get rid of one and another will sprout up somewhere else. Get rid of whatever is most easily dealt with, and as far as the rest go, learn to stay Focused on making money in spite of them. There is never a lack of great excuses or reasons to shift your Focus and slow your roll. Stay determined, stay Focused. Whine about how little time you have or how nobody around you is supportive or that you’re already working forty hours a week, how the hell am I supposed to do more? Take responsibility for the fact that you created everything in your life via your thoughts, beliefs, Focus, actions, and energy, and that you have the power to shift your mindset, raise your frequency, and create new things that will serve you better. Get out of victim mode and into badass mode and be diligent about your mindset. Need to know exactly what you’re doing before moving forward. Get practiced at taking the next step that feels right. There is no greater teacher than experience—you will get all the answers you need as much by falling on your face as you will by knocking it out of the park. Get advice from people who aren’t farther along than you are. We tend to want to involve our old pals and people we feel comfortable with when we’re pushing ourselves into a new financial zone, but if you really want to grow, you need to hang with people you can learn from, who know what they’re doing, not just with people you feel comfortable with. Taking advice from people who are nowhere near where you want to be is one of the best ways to stay right where you are. If you stick with it and start seeing some real results, everything, including your subconscious mind, will start to shift.
* Make sure everything is perfect before starting. There’s a fine line between perfectionism and procrastination. Get the damn Web site up, the business cards made, the headshots taken, whatever—get yourself in the position to start bringing in money and deal with fine-tuning it later. Be precious about getting rid of all the distractions in your life. Distractions are like unwanted hair. Get rid of one and another will sprout up somewhere else. Get rid of whatever is most easily dealt with, and as far as the rest go, learn to stay Focused on making money in spite of them. There is never a lack of great excuses or reasons to shift your Focus and slow your roll. Stay determined, stay Focused. Whine about how little time you have or how nobody around you is supportive or that you’re already working forty hours a week, how the hell am I supposed to do more? Take responsibility for the fact that you created everything in your life via your thoughts, beliefs, Focus, actions, and energy, and that you have the power to shift your mindset, raise your frequency, and create new things that will serve you better. Get out of victim mode and into badass mode and be diligent about your mindset. Need to know exactly what you’re doing before moving forward. Get practiced at taking the next step that feels right. There is no greater teacher than experience—you will get all the answers you need as much by falling on your face as you will by knocking it out of the park.
* Make sure everything is perfect before starting. There’s a fine line between perfectionism and procrastination. Get the damn Web site up, the business cards made, the headshots taken, whatever—get yourself in the position to start bringing in money and deal with fine-tuning it later.
* Be precious about getting rid of all the distractions in your life. Distractions are like unwanted hair. Get rid of one and another will sprout up somewhere else. Get rid of whatever is most easily dealt with, and as far as the rest go, learn to stay Focused on making money in spite of them. There is never a lack of great excuses or reasons to shift your Focus and slow your roll. Stay determined, stay Focused.
* Your faith must be fierce, fiery, not fuckin’ around. You must believe that everything you desire really is available to you and that you possess all the tools, power, and permission to manifest it.
* When you go big and take the scary leaps you need to take to change your financial sitch—hire an expensive stylist, enroll in beauty school, write your book, buy a castle and turn it into a disco—you’re up there on stage with no idea what’s on the other side of those blinding lights, free-falling through space. But here’s the great news: If you nail it, party time! If you bomb, you now know what didn’t work, so when you go out there and give it another shot, you get to do so with more info. Taking a leap of faith is a win/win. Treading water in your comfort zone for the rest of your life is a snore/yawn.
* When you’re grateful for the lessons in challenging situations instead of feeling pissed off or put out or sorry for yourself, you raise your frequency and open yourself up to receiving more high-frequency experiences instead of repeating crappy old ones. Resentment attracts more resentment; denial keeps you stuck in the same place. But gratitude gets you out of the loop of lowness, opens you to new possibilities, and sets you free.
* You have to have a 10-ton gorilla of no-nonsense decidedness breathing down your neck to do what it takes, plow past your fears and subconscious hell nos, and leap into the unknown. Deciding means there is no plan B, you’ve yanked in your one foot out the door and now both feet are inside, fully on board, ready to kick some ass. If you’ve made a backup plan, you haven’t made a decision.
* I can’t tell you how much time I wasted (okay, forty years) pretending I could do things differently, instead of acting on ideas that seemed out of my reach or would have cost me money I didn’t want to spend. In other words, ideas that would have forced me to grow. I blazed by countless strokes of genius without even giving these ideas the time of day, just instantly tossed them aside as impossible. Next! Then back to complaining, spinning out, wondering why oh why can’t I get out of my suckhole? The Universe must have been like, I just gave you exactly what you asked for! Are you freaking kidding me?
* Overwhelm, just like calm, is a state of mind, and all you have to do is choose which party you’re going to attend.
* Here are a couple of ways to beat the beast of overwhelm back into its cage: Investigate the specifics. We cause ourselves so much unnecessary pain when we fly off the handle and assume that the vague, infinite details of our lives are crushing us to death. Meanwhile, we usually have no idea what we’re talking about. For example: I have a million e-mails to answer and I have to pick up the kids and make dinner and I have to apply for a loan for my new business—I am never going to get it all done! becomes, post investigation: The e-mails will take forty-five minutes to answer because there are actually twelve of them, not a million, dinner takes thirty minutes to throw together, I can get my neighbor to pick up the kids, and I’ll have plenty of time to fill out my loan application. Oh. Certainly there are some times when we’ve bitten off more than we can chew, but I promise you, the majority of your overwhelm can be set at ease by getting some clarity.
* If you feel like you have all the time in the world to do something, you will take all the time in the world. If you have twenty minutes, the task will take you twenty minutes.
* Time comes to those who make it, not those who try to find it.
* Here’s a breakdown of the action steps we’ve gone over so far that will help you put a new bulge in your wallet: Get clear on the amount of money you’re going to make, the specifics of what the money’s for, and how freaking awesome it feels to make it. Decide, with unshakable commitment, that you are making this money. Get a plan together to make the money you desire to make, chunk the plan back into bite-sized pieces, and Focus yer ass off on one goal at a time. Hold an image in your mind of the life you’re creating and all the money that’s flowing toward you with eager excitement, hardcore faith, and deep gratitude. Do your best wherever you’re at. If, while building your greeting card empire, you’ve taken a job scraping gum off the bottom of tables at a bowling alley, instead of being pissed off about having a job that you don’t exactly love (what you Focus on you create more of), find the silver lining, be the best damn gum scraper that table has ever worked with, and have an attitude of gratitude.
* A desire to grow is not the same as being negative about where you’re at.
* One of the fastest ways of talking yourself out of doing what you need to do to succeed is collapsing into victimhood, deciding that other people have more available to them, and that you have it harder, so why bother. You very well may have it harder than most people, but people who’ve had it even harder than you have done miraculous things with their lives. Success is not about where you’re at, it’s about where, and who, you decide you’re going to be.
* We are energetic beings driven by emotion, so if your surroundings depress you, it’s critical that you do whatever you can to brighten things up. Slap on a fresh coat of paint, clean your windows, hang up pictures from magazines of places you’d love to live in or visit and look at them all the time, get some plants, tidy up your clutter, throw a nice bedspread over your ratty couch, and if you’ve got sheets thumbtacked over the windows, please, get some damn curtains.
* My friend told me this hilarious story about having a French roommate who was watching her get changed one day and said, in her thick Parisian accent, “Your underwear makes me believe you are sad and hate your life.” My friend looked down at her utilitarian cotton panties, an old pair from a five-pack purchased at Target and thought, But they’re bikinis, at least they’re not the high-waisted granny ones, doesn’t that count for something?
* When you succumb to fear, you are under the illusion that you can predict the future.
* Improve your environment. Pay attention to how the things you surround yourself with make you feel. Pick at least one thing in all the following areas and upgrade in a way that gives you even more joy and energy: Your home Your car Your clothes Your general appearance Your exercise routine The food you eat The music you listen to
* The news you pay attention to
* This is how so many broke people act when it comes to money. We’d rather limp around taped to our ratty, unhealthy relationships with money, afraid that if we peel back the layers, we won’t be able to handle what we see underneath. But by confronting whatever lies beneath—be it our guilt for wanting more money or our mismanaged investments or our less-than-impressive plans for getting rich—once we give it attention and untangle it, we empower ourselves to end the torture. Our attempt to avoid pain backfires on us all the time.
* The very unfunny cosmic joke: In an attempt to protect ourselves from pain, we perpetuate behaviors that create the very pain we are trying to avoid.
* Thanks to our love of avoidance, the average person spends more time figuring out which is the perfect angle to take the hottest selfie from than she does figuring out what she really wants out of life,
* We’re taught that if we keep working harder, somehow the money will come. If this was true, all rich people would be bloodshot and gasping for air instead of sailing around on yachts.
* When we Focus on the money instead of working ourselves to death, and get mighty clear about how much we desire to make and what we can do differently in order to make it happen, we open the door to new freedoms.
* You have to be willing to change something if you want to change your financial situation. It’s that simple. You may have to put your ego aside and ask for help from a mentor or a coach, you may have to take a job that isn’t your dream job as a stepping-stone to get you where you’re going, you may have to triple your rates, make sales calls to people who’ve never heard of you, spend money you’re scared to spend, take a job where you feel like you have no idea what the hell you’re doing and figure it out as you go along. If you’re playing it safe and you want to be rich, you need to stop playing it safe. You need to shift your Focus from where you’re at and what you stand to lose and become consumed by thoughts of where you desire to be and all you have to gain. You need to play to win instead of play not to lose.
* The story goes that when Columbus first came to the New World, the natives didn’t see his fleet of ships right away even though they were standing right there on the beach looking out at them. They’d never seen a ship before; people floating on water was a completely foreign concept to them and it took time for their brains to connect the dots and absorb what appeared before them. So, at first, they literally saw nothing but ocean. This is where so many people get stuck when trying to figure out what to do to make money—they’re trying to change their lives from the perspective of their current reality. The new opportunities are so foreign to them that they can’t see them or they just don’t make any damn sense.
* Do your numbers. Make sure your idea has profit and growth potential. I’ve seen so many people start businesses they’re superpsyched about that either make hardly any money or wind up costing them money because they were more Focused on their enthusiasm than the revenue streams. Both are obviously important, but if you want a hobby, get a hobby. If you want a business that makes money, be clear on how much you desire to make and how you’re going to make it. Do what you love and the money will follow works well on a throw pillow, but doesn’t do much for the bank account.
* Get good at sales. Sorry, but if you’re in business, you’re in the business of sales, cuz without sales, you ain’t got no business. Take courses, discover the parts about sales that you’re good at (it goes deeper than you think), practice, get good at the skill sets, and stop saying how much you love everything about your business except the sales part.
* Design your own job. If you see things in your company that need doing that aren’t being done, create a new job for yourself. Come up with an excellent pitch about all the ways this will benefit the company and help them make craploads of money, and name your salary. You never know, stranger things have happened.
* Treat money the way you’d like to be treated. You are having a relationship with money and in order for things to go well, you need to put time, Focus, and love into this relationship. Give moola a reason to hang out with you. Take an interest in its life. Get clear on how much money you have, what you’re bringing in (incomes, investments, royalties, curse jar income from your kids, everything), how much you require each month to live, and where each of your dollars goes. What you Focus on you create more of. This will take approximately fifteen minutes in case you’re getting ready to reel off into overwhelm/bored-alreadydom.
* Treat money with respect. Pay attention to your money and be grateful for all the awesomeness it brings to your life. Speak highly of it. Give and receive it with glee, gratitude, and generosity. If you see it on the ground, pick it up and give it a good home.
* Don’t take failure personally. Get your ego out of it and your curiosity into it. Approach failure with an attitude of Hmmm, I wonder why that happened? Was there something I could have done differently? Don’t fall into the trap of creating an award-winning drama around failure and using it as proof that you’re a moron/doomed/never gonna get what you want. If you have the desire to get rich, the way is there. Temporary failure becomes permanent defeat only when you say so.
* Do your numbers. Get clear on how much money you desire to make and by when (be specific about what the money is for and don’t forget to include your monthly nut of bare-necessity costs). Make sure this number is real and connected to specific things that bring up specific emotions. Then chunk it back—if your goal is five years away, chunk it back to how much you will make in four years, how much you will make in two years, how much you need to make this year, in six months, etc., all the way back to this month. Then put a definite plan in place with clear action steps that go toward your goal.
* Always pay attention to your numbers. If you don’t make your financial goal one week, add it on to the next. Your numbers MUST be nonnegotiable or else you’ll never get rich. Get organized. Put it all on the schedule instead of just hoping it gets done.
* Keep your eyes open for new, scary opportunities that may lead to the riches you’re seeking.
* Open up a new savings account, open a money market account, build the nest, and welcome in all the money that is coming your way.
* If you desire to do something, there is a part of you deep down that knows you’re capable or else you wouldn’t waste your time thinking about it.
* Oy the energy we waste lugging around the wet sandbag of guilt and resentment!
* Everyone’s an asshole and everyone is awesome,
* Poverty and staying broke are diseases that we cause with our mindsets, which is why when we make the conscious choice to Focus on what’s true for us and what feels good, instead of why we can’t and mustn’t get rich, we can cure ourselves. Self-love means doing things that make you feel good.
* she was brought to the point where she didn’t think she could take it anymore, so she sought out a mentor who gave her great advice: He told her to go surfing. To take it day by day, that nobody wins if you quit—it will feel good in the moment but then it’s over. If your investors are going to fire you, let them fire you, don’t fire yourself. Never give up.
* We all have habitual places where we stop—a certain threshold where something gets too intimate or too expensive or too close to success for our comfort. Crossing this threshold is exactly what we need to do to exit our comfort zones and transform our lives, which is why it’s so terrifying to us and why our subconscious minds gather all the king’s horses and all the king’s men to make sure we run away, run away!
* We’ve spent loads of time working on changing your habits around how you think, believe, and speak, and because habits are so major, I want to give you a few more tips. But first, here are some habits you’re going to want to develop if you haven’t already. These are some of the most common habits of successful people. Successful people: Take risks Stick to their decisions Set good boundaries Give back work smart Go to the spiritual gym (read self-help books, exercise, meditate, work with mastermind groups, etc.) Delegate Constantly learn Stay disciplined Focus Practice patience Surround themselves with ass kickers Talk about ideas, not other people Get back up instead of give up Show up on time Know what’s going on around them Know what’s going on with their money
* Have zero tolerance for negotiations. Perhaps my best tip when it comes to forming new habits is to remove yourself from the negotiation Process. Let’s say you’ve decided you’re going to get into the habit of making five sales calls before lunch every day. Right before you’re about to dial the phone, the idea pops into your head to check Facebook one more time to see if anyone commented on the picture you posted of your grandmother in a wet suit. The moment that thought comes into your head, you recognize it as what it is: a negotiation away from your goal. “I’m just gonna go on Facebook for one little minuteypoo.” Or if you’ve quit drinking it might be, “Maybe I’ll just have one little sip.” Or if you’re meditating, “Maybe I’ll just stop before the timer goes off. I think I’m almost done anyway.” It’s these tiny moments, these split-second decisions, upon which your financial success rides. Not only do all these moments add up, but each one serves as a crack in your resolve where other excuses can, and will, seep in. Here’s how to anchor in some nonnegotiating badassery: Identify with the new habit. I’m a successful person who gets stuff done, not someone who screws around on Facebook. It’s not even a blip on my radar. I don’t drink, so why would I even consider taking a sip of alcohol any more than I would consider sniffing glue? I don’t sniff glue and I don’t drink. End of story.
* Notice three not-so-great habits that you’ve got and put together a plan to change them to good habits. Go to the spiritual gym every day. What will you do every day to keep your frequency high, your faith strong, your mindset solid, and your tenacity unshakable? What self-help book will you read, what music will you listen to to pump yourself up, what affirmations will you write, will you meditate, listen to meditations, journal, exercise? Put together some sort of spiritual practice that you will do every single solitary day to stay in shape. Even if it’s just fifteen minutes a day, this is critical to your success. Mindset is a muscle, and just like your other muscles, once you get in shape you don’t get to stop working out, you have to stay on it if you want to stay mighty.
* As you evolve, it’s helpful to keep in mind that all the seemingly insurmountable roadblocks and fears you’re facing right now on your path to riches will be insignificant crumbs falling through the cracks of your memory someday too:

#tk/wealth
